Redesigning the Maze

While the world is watching large corporations lay off thousands of staff and (disingenuously) attributing it to the rapid growth of AI, the reality is AI isn't about to replace the worker, but the customer. 

If AI truly was replacing humans in industry, it would be the first time in history that a breakthrough new technology demanded fewer experts in thata field. Unfortunately, in 2026, the professional world is now dealing with the consequences of overhiring, poor management, and the ill-advised ventures (i.e. pump dot fun) of the Covid era. Even if it were true, these layoffs in themselves and money bleeding from the economy are just compounding poor decisions. Why? Because AI is not replacing workers, it's replacing customers. And the amount of work that needs to be done to prepare this new future cannot be automated. On the contrary, it needs to be curated and accelerated.

Day by day, Agentic AI is becoming more prevalent on the Internet. It's clicking on news feeds to grab relevant information. It's searching hundreds of thousands repos for the ingreditents of next great business idea. It's hitting "buy" on the item for the user who doesn't have the personal time to research where to get the best value in their precious time. If you're Amazon, you have no idea if a human or an agent is buying your product, and until recently, you probably didn't care, as long as they're paying for it. Then last night, your dashboard shows sales of that item have fallen off a cliff. A competitor called Bosawas has captured your market with the exact same item for the exact same price and the exact same shipping costs, Ts&Cs, and with objectively worse SEO. So what happened? How did you lose?

Because Bosawas understood that it's now about making life simpler for not just the humans, but the agents too.

Consider Pac-Man, where you control a little round dude who runs through a maze searching for pellets and cherries, avoiding ghosts, and getting to the end of the level. There are an estimated 13 billion paths in every single level of Pac-Man, meaning a lot of trial and error to find out which one is optimal. If you're a pragmatist, you know you don't have the time to spend to find the most optimal path. But if you're in a competition between you and a friend to see who completes the level first? You know you don't need the most optimal path, just a better one that your opponent.

A person won't even think about which path to take - they'll just vibe it out, sense where to go, try to manipulate the ghosts, and get to the goal. Now compare that to an agent, who will always act upon an iterative algorithm to get to the end of the level. Its method will be unintuitive, selected at random, with no guarantee it will get a better result any faster than the human. I'm not saying it's worse, but it's definitely not optimal. So right now, today, who do you fancy to win a race of Pac-Man: An agent, or a human?

And in this question lies the challenge of the future Internet - redesigning the maze itself. Something that should be enjoyable for the user should also be direct and clear for the agent. Agentic AIs don't like mazes. They will not navigate the Internet the same way people do, and nor should they. People inherently find joy in the discovery of random walks. Through playing games, knowledge gathering, and sharing. They click on links they hadn't thought about before browsing shopping sites and blogs, they'll get distracted and watch videos, they'll swap between apps for the best possible dopamine hit from doomscrolling time.

Agents will not engage in any of these behaviours. They will bypass ads and mechanisms designed to grab your attention because they are unimportanat to their directive. They will tirelessly trawl through search results, increasingly deprioritising paid-for top results in their models in getting to the end goal. Your ad spend and customer acquisition cost means nothing to the agent. AI's are not web 2.0's friend. And that, for the user, is a great thing.

The first movers in this space are the companies who are already adopting this thinking and building with it in mind. The goal of all digital entities now should be to eliminate the customer journey for agents and offer them a straight path to their objective. This is already happening in the form of MCPs - a standard by which AI models can connect to external data and tools to navigate sites and apps more effectively. They reduce the friction of buying a product, subscribing to a service, or simply exchanging valuable data. 

Allowing the customer themselves more time to enjoy Pac-Man.
